Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome
User Experience Evangelist,
John Geleynse.
Well, good morning.
Welcome to session one and
to the second day of WWDC.
I hope you had a great day yesterday.
Today we're going to begin the
day with two sessions focused
on user experience for Mac OS X.
And the first one is going
to focus on the principles,
the human interface design principles
that we employ at Apple as we put
together the operating system,
as we put together some of the
applications that we produce.
And the focus of this session
is around these principles,
and really the content for this
session is chapter one from the
Aqua Human Interface Guidelines book.
And then we're going to follow
that up with part two at 10:30,
which is focusing
specifically on adopting Aqua.
But to talk you through the principles,
I want to introduce Stan Taylor,
a member of the human
interface design team at Apple.
Stan?
Good morning.
This morning we're going to talk about
human interface design principles.
Human interface design principles
are basically statements of
policy about designing interface
that work most of the time,
and that's gained from
concrete experience.
But as I was thinking about how to
gel the concept of HI principles down,
I thought I'd illustrate
it with a riddle.
This riddle is about three salespeople
in your organization who are on a
trip trying to sell your software.
And they get done with their
job late at night and they
have to check into a hotel.
Turns out it's a very inexpensive hotel,
but they have to get up early
the next morning for a flight.
So as they're preparing,
as they're on their way up to
the room with the bell person,
they ask him, "How much is the room?"
And he tells them,
"It's $30." I told you
the room was cheap.
So that meant that they each
gave him $10 for the room.
Well,
the bell person takes the money back
down to the clerk and the clerk says,
"The room is only $25.
You've overcharged them by $5."
So the clerk on the way back,
the bell person on the
way back up is thinking,
"I don't know how to split
$5 evenly three ways."
He gives them back one dollar per person
and puts two dollars in his pocket.
So let's see what we've got so far.
They each paid $9 to the room,
that's $27.
The bell person kept $2, that's $29.
Where did the other dollar go?
Now it's early in the morning hopefully
and at least some of you aren't
quite sure where that dollar went.
And the reason that you're not thinking
about this problem right is I created
an expectation in you by telling
you something that wasn't true.
I told you that each person
paid $9 for the room,
and that was $27.
And in doing that,
I created an expectation in you
that led you to think about the
problem in a particular way.
As a matter of fact,
each person paid $8.3 for the room,
$2/3 for the tip, that's $27,
they each got back $1, that's $30.
But by mismanaging your expectations,
I cause confusion in you.
When we create interfaces,
we don't intend to confuse people,
but we may.
And so, HI principles are about setting
and managing expectations that
help the user use the software.
And that's what we're going
to talk about this morning.
Why are they important?
Well, first of all, the user benefits.
Applying these principles will
make your software more usable,
and that turns out to be one of
the top predictors of satisfaction.
So of course you want satisfied users,
applying these principles
will help you get there.
In addition,
think what happens when they can't
use a particular piece of software.
What do they do?
After they've exhausted
the manual and help,
if they go there at all,
what they're going to do next is go find
someone else in their organization that
they think knows how to use the software.
And that person is going to sit
down with them and they're both
going to start working to figure
out how to solve the problem.
At that point in time you have two
people who aren't doing their job.
Turns out that that costs a lot of
money and lost productivity each year.
So you want to set the right
set of expectations so that
users can learn the product,
they can work well with it and get their
work done without losing productivity.
And what's that mean for you?
That means that you're
going to spend less money.
It's going to reduce your support costs.
It's going to simplify and, therefore,
reduce the amount of documentation
that you have to produce.
And in addition,
you're going to produce less UI.
As we go through the principles,
you're going to see that an application
with less UI is actually a better one.
And that, of course,
is going to lead to revenue.
So this is a win-win situation.
Now there are a lot of principles.
Don't memorize this chart.
This is just to give you an idea
of the ones that we're going to
spend a little bit of time on today.
There's one that's very big and
we'll spend particular time on
that one to get things started.
But these principles are documented in
the Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.
They are available on the web.
If you don't have a copy, download it.
It's free.
And the early part of that will deal
with the human interface principles,
and the rest of the document
shows how we've extended those
principles and actually created a UI,
and it tells you how to use them.
And a lot of that will be the topic
of what will be in the next session.
So the first principle
is know your users.
And if you haven't heard it before,
you are not your user.
You have to find out who they
are and what they can do.
and you have to find out what they're
doing because uh... they come in
all sorts of different flavors and
What you learn about them will
help you create a user interface
that meets their expectations.
And kind of a rule of thumb that we use,
and you can adapt it however you want,
is pick your favorite victim.
Could my niece, my nephew, my mom,
my dad, my kid, and my favorite one,
the irritating neighbor,
for those of you from California,
if you've seen the Pac Bell commercials,
you know about the guy next door
that comes over to borrow your DSL,
could that guy use your interface?
One way to identify who your
users are and what they can do
is to create a usage scenario.
Simply set down in writing
or in a document by examining
your users who they are.
For example, is it a child in school
using their first computer?
Is it an ex-Windows user?
Is it a person creating
a professional movie?
All of them come to the interface
with different expectations.
And what are they doing?
Are they creating a website?
Are they creating a family tree?
Are they creating a movie,
as I suggested?
Again,
this will determine what they think
about when they approach the interface.
And their background and what they
have to do will also determine how they
approach the task and the interface.
So the time you spend getting
to know them will allow you to
adapt the interface to their
particular skills and expectations.
And when you do that,
keep in mind that what you're going
to be doing is taking their job,
what they want to do,
and making it easier for them to do that.
So you're not just going to go and say,
"They do this, then this, then this,
then this," and mimic
it in the interface.
You want to find out what they're doing,
think about how can you make
them get their work done better,
and then that's what you'll do.
We tend to think of users
as falling on a dimension.
On one end we have what
we call the low end users.
Typical of that would be the person
who has a new mini-DV camera and says,
"I really like that iMovie.
I want to use it." And they go out
and buy their very first computer.
They would be a relatively low skilled
group in terms of using a computer.
Another example might be the children in
school that are handed an iBook and said,
"This is what you're going
to do your homework on."
On the other end of the spectrum we
have what we sometimes call power users.
These are the very
sophisticated scientists,
professional designers, IT professionals,
the ones that tend to use what we
sometimes call the high-end apps.
But keep in mind that that new user,
the so-called newbie,
is going to learn over time
and become more proficient
in performing certain tasks,
particularly the tasks that are
involved in getting their work done.
And the high end user, the power user,
they really become masters at
the applications that are used
in getting their work done.
But when they use a
new piece of software,
even though they may bring more
sophisticated approaches to using it,
they're still novices
at that point in time.
Both of these groups are going to
be very frustrated if they can't
get their work done because yours
or our software gets in their way.
So, know your users.
Fundamental basis for all
the rest of the principles.
The next principle is kind of the
basis for graphical user interface.
We're calling it C and point.
Basically it says that everything a
user can do is visible in the interface.
And in particular,
there's a model that says,
first I pick an object,
and then I pick a verb
to act on that object.
And that's the basic model
of graphical user interface.
They can pick the action
in a couple of ways.
And we'll discuss direct
manipulation in a minute.
But the most classic way
is to select an object,
as you see here, selecting the folder,
and then selecting an action
to perform on that object.
And the idea is that the user
doesn't have to know any syntax.
They don't have to know,
they don't have to memorize any commands.
It's all visible to
them in the interface.
We mention this because we still
see some applications that don't
quite get the principle right.
For example, they might ask someone
to pick a property,
then pick an object,
and then pick something else that causes
the property to be applied to the object.
And it gets complicated
and confuses the users.
So that's a basic fundamental principle,
C and point.
Metaphors is another one.
You can take real world objects and use
them as a metaphor in the interface.
For example,
menus are something that people
are familiar with in restaurants.
They know they can pick
items from a menu to,
in the case of a restaurant, choose food.
We can take that,
put it in the interface,
and help them out by
something that's familiar.
They know how to manage files
and folders and coordinate them.
So we can use that knowledge and
build folders into the interface.
They know that they can use a
trash can to throw things away.
So we know that we can create
a metaphor on the computer as
a way of getting things off the
computer or throwing it away.
So metaphors allow us to take real world,
familiar objects and take advantage
of what the users already know about
those objects in getting work done.
[Transcript missing]
But in the early days when
people created their work,
saved it on a diskette,
they weren't very comfortable
about taking that diskette then
and putting it in the trash can.
You know,
I don't want to throw my work away.
And you'll notice, by the way,
in Mac OS X now,
I don't think many of you
use diskettes anymore,
but if you drag a CD around
or a zip disk around,
you'll see that the trash can
turns into an icon of the eject
button to help people who have
trouble with that metaphor.
So metaphors, use them,
but put some thought behind how
you use them in the interface.
The next principle is
Direct Manipulation.
Whenever possible,
let the user act on the object the
way they would in the real world.
It saves them having to scan
the menus to find something.
In this case, for example,
what's illustrated is taking
a file and dragging it and
dropping it into a folder.
In fact,
drag and drop is probably the most
common form of direct manipulation.
And when you use drag and drop,
try to use it, you know,
wherever you use copy and paste,
use it for dragging files around,
but use it for other things as well.
Like if a user selects text,
let them drag the text around.
In general,
you want to use direct manipulation
wherever it's expected.
And users actually expect it more
than just moving things around.
So support it whenever they use it.
In this example, we have a text document
and we have the color
A little chip from the color
picker is being dragged around.
The chip knows something about its color,
maybe the color space it came from.
The text document knows that it can
take information from that chip,
that is the color that it wants,
and change the text to that color.
Another example would be if you
used a name and an address book
that contains phone numbers,
email addresses, all sorts of things,
but you could drag it into
some other application,
and that application would know
that it could take from what
was being dragged information
that it needed about the user.
Not all of the information,
just the pieces that
apply to that application.
The best way to see what users
expect is to observe them.
The next principle is Flexibility.
Let different users at different
times do things in different ways.
I've listed seven possible
ways of selecting a verb,
for example, here.
Now,
we're not suggesting that every single
case you use all seven of these.
That would be horrible.
But for example,
if there's a very frequently
accessed menu command,
give it a keyboard shortcut.
Don't give all of your
commands keyboard shortcuts.
That overwhelms the user,
and they never remember them anyway.
But if it's frequently done,
give it a keyboard shortcut.
And for those things that are very,
very commonly done,
you can put them in a toolbar.
Here we show our View Switcher widget,
which is in the Finder toolbar,
that allows the user to switch views.
We know that's done frequently,
and putting it in the toolbar makes
it even more accessible to the
user and requires even less memory.
Again, we're relying on recognition
memory as opposed to recall,
but you can save them the need to go
to the menu bar to find the action.
Contextual Menu is another example
of something that you could do.
You can provide very frequently
used commands in a contextual menu
on your files or folders or objects
and again support the user and
different user styles in interacting.
So try to keep the interface flexible.
At this point in time,
I'd like to invite Pat Coleman to come up
and give you a demo of how C and Point,
Metaphors, Direct Manipulation,
and Flexibility have
been applied in Mac OS X.
Pat?
Thanks, Stan.
In order to show these principles
that Stan has been telling you about,
we decided to pick one of the finder
elements that was added in Mac OS X,
Favorites,
and demonstrate these principles,
not because you won't
know anything about this,
you probably use this all the time,
but the point is to analyze
this particular feature
against these principles.
The first folder,
I want to add this to my favorites.
The typical activity would be to
go through the menus and find the
command that would let me do that.
It's in the file menu, of course.
Here it is, add to favorites.
In order to find out,
did it really get there?
I can scan the menus
and find the favorites.
The favorite menu, and again,
looking at what we're doing so far,
the menus of course is the metaphor that
Stan was talking about that you could,
that everybody could utilize
because it's so familiar to people.
And the words are there and
people can make that connection.
So here in the hierarchical menu,
we have listed the fact that best
of web folder has been added there,
but we could actually go there
and make sure it is indeed there.
So,
That's the first method.
So what we're talking about here, okay,
we want to add more flexibility to this.
The second folder we could add to
favorites by using the command keys.
Now, as you all noticed here,
Command-T is indicated in the menu,
but if I use that off the keyboard,
And then use Command-Shift-F
To go there, I'm not sure why the two
commands are different letters,
but we could talk about that later.
When you get there, you see indeed,
Movies and Birthdays has been added.
So, this is the power user element,
and we've added that
So if you analyze and say, "Okay,
here the flexibility has
been utilized and more,
instead of just using the menu,
somebody that's a power user
can remember the command keys,
can actually do this quite quickly."
The last method, of course,
is Direct Manipulation.
You pick the folder and
you drag it to favorites.
It's in the toolbar.
The heart is familiar.
It's used for things that
you really like or love.
And in this case,
we've used it as the icon to
represent favorites in the toolbar.
Clicking on favorites
This session teaches the basic
human interface design principles
that make the Macintosh what it is.
Learn to implement Modelessness,
Direct Manipulation, User Control,
Forgiveness, Feedback and Dialog,
and other interface design
principles to create applications
that users find intuitive,
friendly, and powerful.
Stan Taylor, Robert Kondrk, John Geleynse
Basically what we're trying to show
here is that a familiar thing in the
Finder is actually using the principles
that Stan has been talking about.
And I'll send it back to Stan.
You can hear about some more.
Thank you, Pat.
Okay, the next principle is
called User Control.
Basically,
the user should drive the computer,
the computer should not drive the user.
So you want to make sure that the
You're providing an environment where
the user feels that they have control
over what's happening in the computer.
One way to do that is make sure
you don't send them down a path.
For example,
a calendar application might say,
allow the user complete control
on when to pick the people,
the place, the time,
and there was another aspect of the
calendar which I'm forgetting right now,
but the point is, rather than say,
do this, then this, then this,
it allows the user to do
it in any order they want.
Now, sometimes...
You do want to assist the user by
providing them a sequence of steps.
We do that with assistance.
But always we allow the user to
change the things that they're setting
up in the assistant in other ways.
So the user needs to be in control.
Now one way of doing that,
because there are times when there
are things that they can't do at
the interface in a particular time,
is to show,
to enable or disable UI in order to tell
them that something isn't available.
But it's not gone.
It's still there.
So that's an example.
The other way is provide
a warning or an alert,
particularly if the user is
about to do something horrible.
If they want to, for example,
trash their hard disk,
that's their right.
Give them a warning, but let them do it.
And then the other thing is
to provide a working context,
such as a set of tool palettes
that are appropriate to the
task being done at the time,
so the user doesn't
have to hunt for them.
They feel they're in control
of the system because the tools
they need are always present
at the time they need them.
Toolbars is an example.
These are favorite things that the
user wants to access frequently,
and we can sit here and decide
for the user what those are,
but better is letting the user decide
what they are and be able to tailor the
menu bar in terms of the actions that
they're going to do most frequently.
The next principle, Consistency,
is sometimes overemphasized,
but please don't underestimate
how important this principle is.
This is probably the fundamental
principle that allows users to build
up an expectation of how a system
works or how an application works.
In this example behind you, or behind me,
we were showing an example where
if you drag an icon from the dock,
we show a little poof icon.
And the user learns that that means
that the item is gone from the dock,
but not gone from the system.
Well, to build on that experience
and to be consistent,
we do the same thing
in toolbars elsewhere.
Here in the System Preferences,
for example, if you drag the icon off the
toolbar in System Preferences,
you see the poof.
And by consistently doing that,
consistently using that metaphor,
the user learns that this is
how -- this is what it means.
It means the item's gone
from wherever I took it from,
but it's not gone from the system.
Consistency is a difficult one,
so when you think about it,
consider whether or not you
need to be consistent with,
for example, your application itself.
Now, that's, I think,
is actually a fairly important one.
It's often the case that we can
identify the timeline of development
of a major application or the
organizational structure of a large
company that produces applications
just by looking at how differently
things are done in different places.
This allows everybody to be creative,
but it also confuses users.
Users are then not sure,
how do I accomplish this goal
here when in another place
it's done in another way.
Another element to consider is
if you're building an application
that's based on some concept
or model from the real world,
either in terms of the real world
or something that you did in a
previous version of your application,
or applications that are
similar to yours do it,
at least consider whether you want
to break that expectation that the
user has by being inconsistent.
Because if you are,
you may make it difficult
for them to use your product.
And finally,
this is going to keep coming up,
the Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.
It's very important to be
consistent with what you see in the
guidelines that are provided in the
Aqua Human Interface Guidelines.
The reason is the user is going
to build up expectations based on
their interaction with the operating
system and other applications
that have followed the guidelines.
If you don't follow the guidelines,
then not only will users have
difficulty using your application,
but this will break down their
expectations that they've built
up from the operating system and
other applications and will lead
to possibly confusion in general.
What you see is what you get.
Very well known principle, WYSIWYG.
It has two aspects.
And in terms of output,
I wanted to point out that it
was originally talked about
primarily in terms of printing.
But we're now creating all sorts of
different media that we then send to
some other--we create something on the
computer and send it to other media.
For example, we create movies now.
We put them on DV or QuickTime.
We create music and it goes on
iPods or in games or other places.
And pictures that go on albums.
In all cases,
what the user sees or hears or
possibly sometime in the future smells,
what's on the computer should be the
same thing that they experience in
the final media that it's taken to.
The other aspect of what you
see is what you get has to
do with the interface itself.
What the user needs to get the task
done should be visible to the user.
They should always be able to find
all the functionality of your product.
Now you don't necessarily want to show
all the functionality at the same time,
but always make it obvious
to the user how to get to
the additional functionality.
And now I'm going to ask
Pat to demo User Control,
Consistency,
and What You See is What You Get.
Pat?
Okay, we're going to use mail to
talk about user control and
to talk about consistency.
[Transcript missing]
And in the main mail window,
you have a toolbar.
And the way you operate on
the toolbar to customize it
is the same in both.
So not only are you talking here about
the user having complete control over
how they want their toolbar to be,
In both cases,
it's the consistent interface
that they're interacting with.
So how does this work?
Well, you know,
maybe you want attachments
to be at the end,
or maybe you want separators
to organize things for you.
Maybe you don't really like color,
so you want to get rid of that,
and that could be your compose window.
In the mail window,
maybe you want the mailbox to
be at the end instead of delete.
You know, whatever the, but the user has
complete control of this,
and that's the whole idea behind
the idea of a toolbar that isn't
determined by the developer,
by us at Apple.
It's determined by the user themselves.
I'll bring this back to sort of a
default state here in both cases.
and, um,
[Transcript missing]
You can go through all the options
that you have for your toolbar.
So what you see is what you get here.
Maybe you don't need to have
labels underneath the icons
to tell you what to do.
In this case,
maybe you want them to be there,
maybe you want the icons to be larger.
It's under the complete
control of the user.
It can also go away completely if
you don't want to see it at all.
It's at your and the
user's determination.
So keep those things in mind.
We've gone through about six principles
now and there's more to come,
so I'll hand it back to Stan and
we'll keep moving along.
Thank you, Pat.
The next principle I want to talk
about is Feedback and Communication.
This is essentially the computer
gives information to the user,
the user makes requests of the computer.
And there's various ways to do that,
but the one I want to emphasize
now is to use your main window,
the primary interface,
as much as you can.
Don't
Users don't like to have to
go off to dialogues or other
places to get things done.
So in this example here,
I have a mail window and I made a
request in the mail window to see all
the mail that has in the body of its
text the word "special." And I made
the request in the primary interface.
I didn't have to go to a dialogue
to say that's what I want.
In addition,
the mail app is giving me back the
results in the primary interface.
Again, I don't have to go someplace
else to see what the results are.
So here we see the number of hits
and they're ranked in terms of
likelihood of being what I was
looking for based on that word.
So it's using the primary interface.
That's what I want to emphasize
as much as possible as opposed to
sending the user somewhere else.
And the users want to
know what's going on.
So always provide status and progress.
The worst thing in the world is when the
user just hits a key and then sits there,
"What's happening now?
I don't know." There are times
when you may want to get the user's
attention in the application,
and if you're not the
frontmost application,
use our notification system because
we will gently and subtly get the
user's attention by bouncing the icon
When you do have to tell the user there's
something wrong or get their attention
when you are the frontmost application,
use a good error message,
and I'll talk about that in a second.
The other thing I wanted to say is
don't bury the user in dialogues.
Again, the worst thing is when a user
gets a modal dialogue to do this,
and then the next thing they have
to do is get another modal dialogue,
and then another modal dialogue,
and then they have to back
all the way out again.
So try to keep that as flat as possible.
I would say never more than two levels,
and the best is one or none.
When you write an alert,
use our standard alert.
You need to provide your
application's icon because we
have a new window layering model,
and they have to be able to keep
track of what application is
telling them that there's a problem.
In addition, if you use a standard alert,
you'll have a place where you use
the large system font to kind of
summarize briefly the condition or error
that you need to alert the user to,
and then in small system font,
you can give them a fuller description,
the consequences of the condition,
and how to get out of it.
And then finally,
providing them meaningful push
buttons where it's very clear exactly
what to do to correct the situation.
So, we all know this one, forgiveness.
The worst thing in the world is when
the user does something that they didn't
intend to do or they do something and the
result is not what they intended to do.
And they're sitting there saying,
"Now what?
I'm in trouble." The principle of
forgiveness says you're going to give
them a way to deal with the problem.
One way to do that is to
track the steps visually,
and I'd like to call attention
to one of my favorites.
I think it's a very good
example of user forgiveness,
and that's the history
palette in Photoshop where
you can undo an awful lot of,
in my case, terribly egregious mistakes.
So, and in other cases,
let the user exit a sequence
of steps to is another way.
But if you can't do anything about it,
if you know they're about to do
something that you simply can't fix,
warn them.
Again, user control says let them do it.
But as this example shows where the
person's about to erase the hard disk,
you can't do anything about it.
Again, user control says let them do it.
But as this example shows where the
person's about to erase the hard disk,
tell them, "If you do this,
we can't fix it for
you." But when you can,
provide a way for the user to fix it.
Undo and redo is the simplest way.
So after a user performs an action,
have an undo choice that allows
them to undo that action.
And then of course there's the,
"I did this.
No, I didn't really want to do this.
Yes,
I do want to do it." So there's redo,
which is an undo of an undo.
When you need to, provide alerts.
And we showed you a good alert.
But if you see that you're
providing a lot of alerts,
revisit your interface because you're
probably doing something that's
making it more difficult for the user.
Alerts are provided when needed,
but you shouldn't see a lot of them.
Modelessness.
In general,
don't trap the user into a particular
mode or way of doing things.
And that's a general rule to follow.
And the first thing
people are going to say,
well, there are times when I have to.
And yes, it makes sense.
If, for example,
in the real world metaphor
that you're copying,
the user would be in a mode.
Let's say in a paint program,
you pick a brush.
Well, you're in a brush mode now.
But make it visible to the user
how to get out of that mode.
And into the next mode.
Generally speaking,
you would like the user to be able
to do whatever they want at any time.
There are ways to improve the
modelessness of your application.
And I've listed several here
and we'll go through them.
One of them is modeless dialogs.
For example, when you're setting
preferences or settings,
put them in a modeless dialog.
That way the user can interact
with the--your application
or other applications.
And the other advantage
of a modeless dialog,
such as this utility palette,
is that it allows the user to
see the results of the settings
that they're making immediately.
Another way that's new
in Mac OS X is Sheets.
They've been around for a while now,
but it may be curious to put that
as a way of modelessness since
they're essentially modal dialogs.
The point is they're modal
only to the document or window
that they're attached to.
And while they're up,
it allows the user to go to other
places in your application or other
places in the system and do things.
So, use sheets as a way of
promoting modelessness.
Another is drawers.
Drawers take possibly big chunks
of the interface that might always
be in the user's face and allows
the user to display them or not.
So, they're not stuck in the
mode of always seeing it.
They can choose whether
or not they want to be,
to have those things present.
So, it increases the modelessness
of your application.
And now we'll let Pat Demo feedback,
forgiveness, and modelessness.
Pat?
Thanks, Stan.
We sort of prepared a number
of documents here that
I'm going to use to show
you these principles.
I also need the font picker.
[Transcript missing]
It's okay, we can make some more.
Let's just have maybe a couple choices.
All right,
so what I want to show in this is
One of the things that Stan talked about,
and that is if you change
something in your document,
for example here, if I want to change
this from Helvetica to,
well, let's use the system font,
Lucida Grande, and let's make it bigger,
really big.
And the reason for the
color picker is because,
let's try changing that.
Ooh, ugly.
But, so if I really don't
like what I see here,
instead of having to go back
through all the operations
Stan pointed out in the undo,
redo,
[Transcript missing]
Feedback to the user,
forgiveness to the user,
always available so they're not stuck
and they don't get mad because somehow
you've put them down a road that they
can't get out of and they haven't got
any way of figuring out how to do that.
To demonstrate modelessness,
I want to bring down a sheet,
a printing sheet here.
We actually hooked up a printer,
so I hope this works.
And this document is huge.
So here we have a print
dialog and here we have,
I guess I dismissed it,
or I sent it to the printer too soon.
I can print this document
or I can print this one.
It's not,
so it's modal to the actual document,
it's not something the
application is working on.
So that's kind of important
because it's great for users to be,
to have that control.
We're going back to a principle
we talked about previously,
but user control is essential.
I'm going to send this to
the printer again just to
show you if you can see that.
I guess it's still trying to...
It must be either done or crashed.
Anyway, what I wanted to talk about is,
in feedback, you have the opportunity to
add to your icon some kind of
badging or some kind of animation.
You've all printed,
so you know that there are
sheets that come through,
and if you have a USB printer that's
directly hooked up to the CPU,
you'll get numbers that
appear on the pages.
Like this document was 12 pages,
so you could,
just by looking at the icon,
figure out where you were
in the process of printing.
That kind of communication
with the user is vital,
something you should think about when
you're developing your application.
I'll send it back to Stan so we
can move on to the next... Oh,
well,
let me just try one more thing here.
If I can... Everything crashed.
Oh, there we go.
The perfect dialogue.
Writing alert messages is very difficult
because you really do want to communicate
to the user what the problem is.
And of course,
this is something that you really
want to warn the user about if
they're going to lose their data.
So I guess that's also in the guidelines.
So this is another plug
for the guidelines.
Thanks, Stan.
Back to you.
Thank you, Pat.
The next principle is
Aesthetic Integrity.
This is one where I think
Aqua has raised the bar very high,
and happily so.
You can think of it as the quality
that allows the user to sense
eloquence and beauty in the interface.
To do that, of course,
you have to have the
highest quality imagery,
highest quality icons,
follow the layout guidelines,
because this is going to produce
an interface that engages the user,
and is something that the user
feels very good about using.
It's not just its appearance, though.
But to get the appearance right,
make sure that you use
our Aqua System widgets.
If you don't,
you won't be getting the ones that
we spend a lot of time designing
to make sure that they do have the
highest level of aesthetic integrity.
And follow the layout guidelines.
In a minute,
we'll talk about why the layout
guidelines are so important.
So again, it's not just the beauty,
it's the composition of the interface.
The layout guidelines,
combined with our Aqua widgets, provide,
you know,
they support the control hierarchy,
they support the, you know,
what's important,
and help the user to see what's
important in the interface.
They eliminate clutter.
You know,
if you have really great features,
that's nice, but if it's buried in
a bunch of other stuff,
the user might not see it.
So the judicious use of white space,
which is documented very well in
the Aqua interface guidelines,
will help you there.
And basically,
it's a business of trying to
keep the interface simple.
Taking stuff out of the interface that's
only going to be noise to the user and
distracts the user from their task.
It's going to provide balance.
So, and the user can see where, you know,
where everything fits and they can
find what they need when they need it.
To do that, you're going to have to apply
these guidelines consistently and
you're going to have to attend to
a great level of visual detail.
So aesthetic integrity, and again,
I think this is probably the one
thing that stands out most about Aqua.
in designing your icons.
Look at this particular set of
icons that represent applications.
They represent many different
kinds of applications.
The one on the left is for creating
documents with text in them.
The one in the middle, preview,
is for looking at images.
The one on the right
is the new iChat icon.
They all look -- have a general
principle that you can see,
though,
that there's a certain orientation
in the background object,
and then there's a tool
located in the lower right.
The tool in iChat, I guess,
is the person who's conducting the chat.
But you can see that even though
the one on the right is --
and others have provided a number of
examples of how to implement the basic
human interface design principles.
They are all highly detailed.
In addition, to support this level
of aesthetic integrity,
there will be interactive
graphics that you want to provide.
Here is an example of some
that we have provided:
the view switcher, the toolbar icons,
and the back and forward buttons.
Again, providing very lush, high-level,
high-quality graphics will support
your users in performing their task.
I mentioned these two.
In addition, in your own product,
don't forget your splash screens,
documentation, screen grabs,
wherever you use those.
Make sure they are of
the highest quality.
The next principle is Simplicity.
Again,
if the user is trying to get something
done and they can't figure out how to
do it because there's so much garbage
on the interface that they can't find
the thing that they need to work on,
that's going to cause them to not
be able to get their work done.
They're not going to be very happy.
So make sure that the basic
features are immediately apparent.
That way the user can focus on
the task that they're performing.
Basically, reduce clutter.
Now, in saying that you should
keep the interface simple,
you're going to say, "Well,
I've got a lot of advanced
features I want to give them,
too." Well, you can do that.
We did it here.
This is the simple save dialog that shows
them how--provides a place for a name,
a pop-up for recent and favorite places,
and the button.
It also has a disclosure button
that allows the user to access
the more advanced view of the
entire file hierarchy so they can
save the document someplace other
than the places that are provided.
And that pop-up menu.
This is called progressive disclosure.
And progressive disclosure allows
the user at their own pace to
discover the advanced features.
It's not that the features
are hidden from them.
If you do progressive
disclosure correctly,
you will make sure that there's
always something visible to the
user that tells them where to
go to get the advanced function.
But it says,
"I'm not going to put it all in
your face at the same time." You can
progressively discover it as you
mature in using the application.
Thank you.
And the final principle that
I want to mention is Accessibility.
Users don't all have the same abilities.
As you see the list here,
visual impairments, hearing impairments,
difficulty in performing
fine motor movements,
those three alone account for
roughly one out of five users.
Twenty percent of users,
or would-be users,
have difficulty in one of those areas.
And in addition, there are people with
learning impairments.
You can support them in large part
by following the guidelines because
a well-organized interface will help
people who have learning difficulties.
There are 52 million people in the U.S.
with disabilities.
Now, in a minute,
we're going to demonstrate
some of the built-in features,
which if you went to the keynote,
you may have seen some of those as well.
But as you design your interface,
keep in mind that we didn't
do everything for you.
You have to think about the fact that
users don't all have the same abilities.
So, for example,
if you provide-- Is there
something that you can hear?
Is there something that you can see
that provides the same information?
If you use color,
what happens if a person can't see color?
Can they use the interface?
And so we've built a lot
of things into the system.
And the other thing
I would like to mention,
there's a session on Thursday that
will tell you also how you can
make your application able to
use the new-- The new system.
--assistive APIs that will provide the
ability for assistive technologies to--
[Transcript missing]
We've chosen System Preferences to talk
a little bit about aesthetic integrity.
One reason is because it's one of
the places where there's a large
collection of icons that we've
[Transcript missing]
To separate these things,
although we've used separators here to
draw attention to the various categories,
it still is
Using a lot of space on
either side of that separator.
If I go into an actual
In the account section of
preferences where you actually
establish the various accounts,
I wanted to point out
individual pains and how we've
actually set those things up.
One of the things that we've
done is we've been clustering
everything toward the center,
aligning the labels to the right
and the content to the left,
so it sort of creates these axes
that the user can be drawn to.
It's sort of the center of focus idea.
One thing that seems to be
somewhat confusing to developers,
we've gotten a lot of questions about it,
is that there's this idea of
centering everything within the space.
What we're really talking about
here is once you've established
the layout of your content,
it's equalizing it within the pain
that you have available for your use.
This is being established, this size,
by all the pains that are here.
We've constrained ourselves a little bit,
but for the most part,
it works out pretty well.
If we go to the accounts,
this is utilizing that whole
idea of progressive disclosure,
something that's very simple.
We're just showing what the accounts are,
but if you want to go in
there and start editing them,
then you get something that's very
similar to the My Account layout.
How to change your picture,
how to change your password
is available there.
If you're a new user,
you also get a lot of
information about this.
The next thing that we're going to talk
about is the layout of the content.
We're going to talk about
the layout of the content.
We're going to talk So I'll
leave that to you to go in and
investigate what those actually are.
I'm going to go to the general
controls pane because one of the
things that Stan mentioned is this idea
of possibly color not being something
that everybody would be able to see.
We've created two different appearances.
One is blue.
And when you are in the blue mode,
the title bar controls are the red,
yellow, and green.
In this case,
the zoom isn't available because
this isn't available to be zoomed.
But if you change to graphite,
the color goes away,
but the glyphs are still there.
So the rollover effect is still present.
So we can't really...
The reliance on color is
something that you should avoid,
basically.
The last thing I want to talk
about is something that gets
into this idea of accessibility,
and that is keyboard navigation that
we've added in the system that you can
take advantage of in your applications.
So, if I just go ahead and show
you the keyboard navigation.
Let's see.
I'll make sure it's turned on here.
It is not.
Okay.
Now that it is,
and all controls can be navigated to,
go back to the main pane and
you'll see that it's there.
And through the arrow keys,
can you see how it's focusing around
the icon of the controls up there?
Well, actually I wanted to stay on the
general controls thing so we can...
How do I get into the actual pane, Stan?
I think you have a demo effect going on.
Oh, there we are.
So, now I can use the arrow
keys to pop the menu,
and if I wanted to...
Select blue again.
It does that.
Highlight color if I wanted to pop
the menu for that and then navigate
through the different colors.
I can change the highlight color
by hitting the space bar and
continuing on through the...whoops.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to demo some of the built-in
features that allow people with
disabilities to use the computer.
I'm not going to demonstrate all of them,
but one of them is mouse keys,
which simply allows the user
to use the numeric keypad to
[Transcript missing]
Again, we paid attention to all of our
principles when we designed that,
so we built some aesthetic
integrity into this as well.
If the user, for example,
presses a command key,
A little glyph appears that
shows that the command key has
been pressed and all the keys,
let me move this aside so you
can get a good view of this,
all the keys can show up and then as
soon as they hit a key that's not,
The key is a key that
is not a modifier key,
then those glyphs go away.
So we provided some aesthetic
integrity in terms of some engaging
feedback for the user who wants it.
Slow keys, I'm not going to demonstrate,
but that allows a user who has to have a
delay between the time a key is pressed
and when the key actually registers.
For hearing impaired people,
they need to have something that shows
them when there's been a system beep.
And the problem is we've always
used a flashing menu bar,
and with screens getting
larger and larger,
it's sometimes difficult to see that.
So we've come up with a new
way of showing the system beep.
The screen simply has a little flash.
And so if a user does something
that would cause a system beep,
they get the flash.
Finally,
for users who need to enlarge the screen,
we have a new zooming feature,
and this allows the user to use the
numeric keypad to zoom in and out.
And one of the nice things they can
do with this is they can say -- let's
say a user needs to zoom into here
to be able to see the interface,
and they can't see anything
when it's zoomed out here,
but they can maybe navigate a bit
if it were zoomed not quite so far.
Then we allow them to do that,
so now with that set,
I can zoom right in,
and then I zoom out to
that intermediate position,
zoom back in, zoom back out,
and if I want to keep zooming out,
I just hold the button,
and it zooms all the way out.
So that's --
And then finally,
there are users who have
difficulty with screens.
They can't tolerate bright environments,
and so we allow them to...
To see the display in
an inversed grayscale.
So those are some of the
built-in accessibility.
There's also a kind of a low-level
screen reader that's been built into
the system to get people started.
Professional screen readers will be
built based on that application API.
So a lot has been done for you,
but keep in mind as you develop your
applications that there are people who
have difficulties using the computer.
We've been talking about the
operating system and the applications
related to the operating system,
but Apple also designs
other solution applications.
How are our principles applied there?
Well, to tell us,
we're inviting the Senior Manager of
Application Software Design and
Production,
Robert Kondrk.
And I'll give you this.
Thanks, Stan.
My name's Robert Kondrk,
and my team creates the visual design
and content interfaces for many,
many of Apple's applications.
These applications run from
iPhoto to Final Cut Pro to the
new Webmail application that
was just launched for iTools.
The technologies that these
applications use include
Cocoa and Carbon and WebObjects.
And of course as we're designing we
think about what those underlying
technologies are and their capabilities
are as we work on the design.
Pat and Stan just spent a lot of
time going through the different
principles with examples of good
best practice user interface design.
What I'd like to do is spend a few
minutes and just kind of zoom out,
if you will, and remind us all of
design's little secrets.
[Transcript missing]
Know your user and know your application.
From the first date,
otherwise known as the first launch,
to a happy marriage, otherwise known as,
"I cannot live without this
application," user interface matters.
Good interface designs the
user and the application.
So you need to know and remember
who your user is and what
the application is built for.
Is your user a casual user?
A dad creating an iMovie on
the weekend of his daughter?
Or is your user a pro user?
Someone using Final Cut Pro whose
livelihood depends on the
use of that application?
Is the application meant to
be and designed to be very,
very easy to use?
Or is the fact that you need to
be a power user and have many,
many features available to you and many,
many options more important?
Know your user, know your application,
choose your user and your
application design targets,
and then design with conviction.
Think about the user
using your application.
Use cases are important.
User profiles are important.
Workflow is important.
Just take the time to go through
and again focus on the user,
focus on that use case,
what are they actually
doing with the application,
and run through it.
And as Stan said,
and I can't remind you enough,
you're not the user for your application.
Few applications are islands.
So think about your application
in relation to other
applications and data types.
What does the application
need to interact with?
Think about the metadata
around the content.
Can you retain it?
Can you easily do workflow from
one application to another?
An application that doesn't munch
other people's data is a good,
good thing.
Simplify.
Then simplify again.
And less is more.
These statements are so terribly true,
and it's one thing that Apple does very,
very, very well.
Clutter confuses the casual
user and annoys the pro user.
Force yourself to
simplify until it hurts.
When it hurts, you know you've probably
got to the right place.
The best tools are ones that
you don't remember you're using.
We all need to strive for this.
It's not about your tool,
it's about the work that
could be done with the tool.
And if we remember this one thing,
I think we'll all design much,
much more useful applications.
We all want to thank you for your time,
and I'd like to ask
John Geleynsse to come back up,
wherever you are, John.
And he's going to take you
through the rest of the session.
Thanks.
Okay.
So first of all,
who do you contact about this stuff
if you have questions related to
how do you-- related to implementing
this material or the stuff that
we covered in this session?
That's me.
My role at Apple is to help you
create really great applications
in the world of Mac OS X.
And so if you have questions about
the content in this session or you
want to talk specifically about
your product or you have issues with
some of the APIs that we provide
that enable you to implement some
of these principles or whatever,
feel free to send me an email and
let's correspond after the show.
The roadmap for sessions related to
user experience is essentially this.
The most important one, in a sense,
is the follow-up session
in about 15 minutes.
I'll be presenting the follow-up
to this material and we'll talk
specifically about adopting Aqua and
what are the detailed steps that
you need to undertake to implement a
really great application on Mac OS X.
We'll also be presenting the follow-up
to this material and we'll talk
specifically about adopting Aqua and
what are the detailed steps that
you need to undertake to implement a
really great application on Mac OS X.
There's the Address Book Framework
that wasn't referenced
specifically in this session,
but I'll be talking about it in
detail in mine in session two,
coming up in a few minutes.
There's Speech Technologies as well,
so there's a whole set of sessions
here at the conference that
relate to delivering a great
user experience with your product,
and that's what this roadmap is about.